well Benjamin Netanyahu has been Israeli
Prime Minister for a combined 15 years
over the last three decades he's by far
the country's longest serving Premier
but also controversial and polarizing
he's presided over a series of Coalition
governments that have drifted further
and further to the right and in addition
comes indictments for corruption so how
has he stayed in power and what will his
legacy be
citizens of Israel we are at War not in
an operation or rounds but at
War Benjamin Netanyahu as a wartime
leader a player on the world stage at a
moment of utmost seriousness but it
wasn't always this way earlier this year
these were the scenes on the streets of
Tel Aviv some of the country's biggest
ever demonstrations against proposed
reforms to the Judiciary seen as a
threat to Israel's democracy now those
reforms are on hold as are the
protests Netanyahu has made a career of
surviving upheavals and Scandals that
would have doomed many politicians part
of an identity split between seeking to
make history and making deals to survive
from day to
day after serving as Israel's youngest
ever prime minister in the 1990s he
returned to office in 2009 and quickly
found himself butting heads with US
President Barack Obama
Netanyahu had formed a coalition with
parties that supported illegal
settlements in the West Bank he Allied
himself with Republicans in the US not
only on settlements but in opposing the
Obama administration's sponsoring of a
deal with Israel's Archen enemy
Iran his government's increasing
right-wing Direction seemed to pay
dividends When Donald Trump came to the
White House within a year Trump
recognized Jerusalem as Israel's Capital
to the dismay of Palestinians our
greatest Ally the United States of
America today its Embassy opened here a
big win for Netanyahu the Trump
Administration also spearheaded
agreements between Israel and Middle
Eastern countries normalizing relations
meanwhile netanyahu's problems at home
were growing in 2019 he was formally
charged in three separate cases he lost
an election but after 18 months in
opposition he was back in office to
achieve a parliamentary majority entered
the most right-wing Coalition Israel had
ever
seen efforts continued led by the US to
improve relations with Saudi Arabia and
others but it's now unclear when if ever
a Saudi deal will be formalized an
offensive in Gaza that results in Mass
Palestinian casualties could undo years
of
diplomacy through it all BB has survived
but his hopes for a legacy as an
international Statesman have dimmed
after the Hamas attacks he formed a
union government but it's not a
long-term solution to Israel's problems
the government also faces an imminent
decision on how to respond to the
hostage crisis in Gaza a miscalculation
could have tragic consequences the
question hanging over Netanyahu now is
whether the attacks of October 7th will
be his end or will he manage yet again
to hold on to
power and we can now speak to Audi citz
he is a political analyst and a
journalist who joins us from Southern
Israel
welcome to DW so netanyahu's popularity
among the Israeli public seems to be
decreasing why do you think that
is well I think we've seen during the
last two weeks or so a completely
incompetent government in Israel even if
you put aside the great crisis that was
caused by the surprise attack the
government has not been functioning
properly ever since the war has started
and I think a lot of people in the
Israeli public are looking up to netan
waiting to to see his reactions as prime
minister and are quite disappointed now
that goes all through the political Arc
it goes from the left who wasn't
expecting a lot from netan to begin with
but I think it also goes all the way to
right-wing voters even those who used to
vote to nany and are now looking at him
seeing he's not functioning it took him
too long to form a Unity government is
the general public opinion right now in
Israel and he is just not very present
in Israeli public spaces since the war
has begun I think one other thing that
is very significant right now is that
the Israeli public is expecting a very
strong strike against the Gaza Strip
personally I have never seen the Israeli
public holding such right-wing Hawk
opinions regarding a military operation
and nanyu sticks to his old character
being very pragmatic very careful about
striking in the Gaza Strip not yet
giving the Israeli public what has
become a pretty popular demand of going
into Gaza full force now that may change
in days to come but at least for now
most Israelis look at nanyo and think
that he is not functioning properly as
prime minister and is not running this
war properly from the side of
Israel so what are the expectations that
the Israeli public has from this new
Israeli government this Unity government
that was formed uh in response to the
war I think one of the biggest
expectations Israeli public has from
this Unity government is that it would
help to put political divisions a
not to see political clashes between the
different parties definitely not between
Coalition and opposition but also to
know that there are people with a lot of
military experience in the war cabinet
at least two former Chiefs of Staff and
Deputy of the head of mad have joined
the Coalition or the government right
now that is Benny Gans Gaden and RAM
Barak three very significant men who
have a lot of experience and are
entering a war cabinet running Israel's
worst military crisis in its history
that up until now most of its members
didn't even serve in the Israeli
military so I think for a lot of the
Israeli public there's something very
reassuring knowing that people with such
significant uh uh history and experience
in the security industry and in the
military are now Taken part in running
this operation and are taking decisions
that may be a little more responsible
than people who have never served in the
security
system well this war of course comes
after nearly a year of mass protests in
Israel against Plans by netanyahu's
government to reform the judicial system
and many considered Israel to be a
starkly split country have the current
circumstances changed
that well ever since the war has begun
we're seeing unprecedented unity in
Israeli Society left and Wing are
uniting together there is a huge civil
effort to help the country function it
also happens again because the
government is just not involved not
running the situation uh and is not
taking part in helping Civil Society so
volunteers from all over Israel have
United people who spent the last year
protesting against netanyahu's
government have channeled all of their
resources into trying to help soldiers
volunteers and evacuated survivors from
the kibuts this Unity might not last
after the war and things may change
after that but one thing is for sure I
think Israeli Society has learned that
when it comes to the hour of need it can
unite and I also think that the general
public of
has diversed to a new direction that
will not easily be changed back that was
journalist ad citz uh speaking to us
from Southern Israel many thanks indeed
for your
time thank
you